<!--
.. title: Tapia 2014
.. slug: 2014-02-09-tapia.md
.. date: 2014-02-09
.. tags: 
.. type: text
-->



Spent the past few days at the [Tapia Conference](http://tapiaconference.org) in Seattle.



The Tapia conference is billed as a "Celebration of Diversity in
Computing." The bulk of the attendees seemed to be
students. Undergrads and grads. The undergrads were mostly juniors and
seniors, but a bunch of freshmen and sophomores were there as well. Of
course there were faculty members to join them as well as people from
industry.

What was I doing there? Well, 20 high school teachers were given
scholarships to attend a workshop run by
[Dan Garcia](http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/Faculty/Homepages/garcia.html). Dan
is the driving force behind one of the implementations of CS
Principals course - a new course being rolled out by the College
Board. As you're all well aware, I'm not a fan of the College Board
but I'm interested in Dan's work as common friends speak well of
him.

I'll talk about his course next time, after I've gone through his
workshop. For now, let's talk about the conference.

I wasn't sure what to expect but let me tell you, I was blown
away. Many of the break out sessions didn't "speak" to me as a high
school teacher, but that's fine - the conference was for the
youngsters. I can't say for sure, but it seemed to me that they really
hit the breakout sessions on the head.

Then there were the plenaries. Great speakers and a great range of topics.

They had:

 * Cieko Asakawa talking about assistive technologies
 * Dan Garcia on CS Education
 * Latanya Sweeney - transparency and privacy
 * James McLurkin - robotics (and some computational geometry)
 * Kathryn McKinley - Systems
 * Marcus Mitchel - A general talk on hard problems, winding paths, and more

An incredible rage of topics. All the speakers were terrific - they
all talked about their life and career paths and were all
inspirational

They also presented a smorgasbord of computer science possibilities
for the students. 

Wow.

I wish this could be bottled up and given to all aspiring technologists.

I only got to attend because I was on scholarship as a high school CS
teacher. It was an amazing few days and I can't recommend the Tapia
conference highly enough for young computer scientists out there.





